[IGNORE] update release docs (#1119)
perses/perses: RELEASE.md

### 1. Prepare your release

#### Create a release branch

Create a branch that follows the naming pattern `release/v<X.Y>` and includes the changes you intend to release (usually the latest from `main`). Push it to github. You will use this branch as the base in the next step.

> Release candidates and patch releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**/!\ Release candidates and patch releases**
```

- Create a branch with the changes for the release (e.g. `yourname/release-v<major>.<minor>.<patch>`). 
- Update the file `VERSION` with the new version to be created.
- Generate `CHANGELOG.md` updates based on git history:
  ```bash
  make generate-changelog
  ```
- Review the generated `CHANGELOG.md` for valid output. Things to check include:
  - Entries in the `CHANGELOG.md` are meant to be in this order:
    * `[FEATURE]`
    * `[ENHANCEMENT]`
    * `[BUGFIX]`
    * `[BREAKINGCHANGE]`
  - Entries that map to a pull request should include a pull request number.
  - As we have many libraries we publish, it's better if you also put a clear indication about what library is affected by
these changes.
  - Consumers understand how to handle breaking changes either through the messaging in the changelog or through the linked pull requests.
- Update the `package.json` files for all packages with the corresponding version:
  ```bash
  make bump-version
  ```
- Push the branch to github and create a pull request with the release branch as the base. This gives others the opportunity to chime in on the release,
  in general, and on the addition to the changelog, in particular. 

>   - It's also helpful to drop a link to the release PR in [#perses-dev](https://matrix.to/#/#perses-dev:matrix.org) to get extra visibility.

Author: @Nexucis the mdox docs validator is complaining about this link because it's a duplicate. It seemed like maybe they fixed this behavior in https://github.com/bwplotka/mdox/pull/26/files, but I think we're on the latest version, so maybe I'm missing something. Any thoughts? If there isn't an obvious fix, I can remove the link to avoid the issue.

Reviewer: so far I don't see an obvious fix excepting putting in the file `.mdox.validate.yaml` the link to ignore it. But that means it won't check anymore if the link is valid 😐

Author: For this case, I'm just going to take out the link, but I created https://github.com/perses/perses/issues/1122 for us to look into this a little more deeply when we have time.

- Address any necessary feedback.
- Once the pull request is approved, merge the it into the release branch.

> ### 2. Draft the new release

Reviewer: I'm wondering if the section title is still accurate. Perhaps `create the release tag` would be accurate

Author: The steps include waiting on the automated generation of the release and validating it after. What about "Create tag and validate release"?

Author: Updated to "Create release tag and validate release."

- Pull down the latest updates to the release branch on your local machine to ensure you have the updates from the previous step.
- Tag the new release via the following commands:
  ```bash
  git checkout release/v<version_to_be_replaced>
  make tag
  git push origin v<version_to_be_replaced>
  ```

> Signing a tag with a GPG key is appreciated, but in case you can't add a GPG key to your Github account using the

Author: @cndonovan I recall you having issues with the GPG key bit of this. Is there anything you learned that's worth including here for future folks?

Reviewer 2: I had an issue when I first got my M1 Mac that I posted about [here](https://matrix.to/#/!XNmgYIAndZOkEvQAbb:matrix.org/$1RHQzJMV44vquFgoNTPaKm8ozFcOhR-XrpWEAXkAZAk?via=matrix.org&via=herail.net), at the time, this SO article helped me: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39494631/gpg-failed-to-sign-the-data-fatal-failed-to-write-commit-object-git-2-10-0/40066889#40066889

I thought about adding a note about that in RELEASE.md back then but it did feel very specific to my setup and I was hoping the issue when get fixed eventually, I think Christine might have run into it too though, curious did you have any similar issues with your M1?

Reviewer 3: i remember running into this issue as well

Author: I added a note about that issue and a link to the SO article.

following [procedure](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification), you can replace
the `-s` flag by `-a` flag of the git tag command to only annotate the tag without signing.

Once a tag is created, an automated release process for this tag is triggered via Github Actions. This automated process includes:
- Publishing new versions of the UI libraries to npm.
- Building new go binaries and docker images.

> - Creating a new Github release that uses the changelog as the release notes and provides tarballs with the latest go binaries & docker images.

Author: @Nexucis is this bit accurate? Anything notable I'm missing? Are the docker images/binaries published anywhere else?

Reviewer: the docker images are only published on docker hub:  https://hub.docker.com/r/persesdev/perses

They are not pushed to github if it's what you mean.

Author: Gotcha! Looks like just the go binaries are in those tarballs. I knew I wasn't getting this quite right. Will reword this.

Please verify that the Github Actions complete successfully. Once they are completed, check that everything looks good in the new Github Release. If you realize we need to adjust something in the release notes, you can edit it directly in the Github UI.

### 3. Merge the release into `main`

It can be helpful to leave the release branch up for a little while in case we need to create a patch release to address bugs or minor issues with the release you just made. 

> Once the release branch is no longer needed, you should open a new PR based on `main` to merge those changes. When this PR is approved, merge it into `main` using the "merge pull request" option (instead of "squash and merge," which can have issues with release branches).

Author: @sjcobb I think you were the person who mentioned the recommendation to use "merge" (instead of "squash and merge"). Do you have any additional context that should get added here?

Reviewer: the branch `release vX.Y` is containing the commit tagged. So if you are going to squash this branch in `main`, then this commit will disappear in the git history and then the tag is not attached to any known commit.

That's why it's import to use `merge` instead because it will preserve the commits made on the release branch

Reviewer 2: I found the original discussion on Matrix when this came up [here](https://matrix.to/#/!XNmgYIAndZOkEvQAbb:matrix.org/$jLLD7HCHNbdxMDZQJOHNqUt0ku5jFhD2QSkLfWTs1DE?via=matrix.org&via=herail.net). You can see what happened too if you check some older releases like [v0.7.1](https://github.com/perses/perses/tree/v0.7.1):

<img width="1038" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9369625/233099967-11c17a4e-b744-4d26-a4ff-e6f3f4bdab3f.png">

At one point, I looked through all the settings in GitHub to see if we could automate this somehow and couldn't find a way, it gets tricky too since it always defaults to however you merged your last PR so sometimes it's annoying to remember to change back to 'Squash' the next time since we do want to Squash every other type of PR 😕

Reviewer 2: One unknown for me is, does this only happen on patch releases? The example above is `v0.7.1` where I was merging in multiple commits that got squashed. I'm pretty sure before that release, I did squash some releases that were normal minor release versions and not a patch release, and it worked fine 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering again about the whole minor release branch workflow, it definitely has some upsides about letting development continue on `main` branch and pushing out quick patch releases for bugfixes, but since we have to sync the minor release branch with main anyways before the next minor release can go out, that negates some of the benefits to me. 

This came up with Eunice's breaking changes in our last `v0.28.0` release. I [posted on Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/!XNmgYIAndZOkEvQAbb:matrix.org/$uy-7vPmyIjUtjlxncWV06smk453TS_C3pVo7iTbRLvo?via=matrix.org&via=herail.net) that I wanted to keep the `release/v0.27` open in case we needed to get bugfixes out before we could manually migrate all our dashboards internally (side note: we really need some automated way to do these schema migrations). But then when Eunice went to do the release, we realized that keeping that branch open wasn't an option since we needed to sync the changelog and version changes before she could do her release. 

I've posted about maybe changing to a workflow where we cherrypick just the PRs we need back into an older release branch to do patch releases w/o holding up `main` but the downside there is we might run into this issue where the tags end up in state like `v0.7.1` did (`This commit does not belong to any branch on this repository` error). Any thoughts @juliepagano are there other options we aren't considering? For context, we picked our current process because it works well for the Prometheus project ([ex](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/main/RELEASE.md)), but since their releases go out every ~6 weeks and ours are more frequent, the needs are somewhat different

Reviewer 2: Related, I wrote up a concise version of the steps I did to do the v0.27.0 release [here](https://github.com/perses/perses/pull/1098):

<img width="754" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9369625/233106313-9b9399af-69db-4ef7-9c3f-f9899fd03268.png">

Now that we have changelog generation that works really well and GitHub gives us the ability to manually edit release notes after the release goes out to clean up any PRs with 'unknowns', I bet we could automate at least half of the bullet points. What if we could just cut a release by making a `release/v0.x.x` branch and then basically everything automatically happens including the last steps where the release is tagged (assuming a maintainer cut the release branch and we figure out some way to do the GPG key signing in CI)

Author: @sjcobb would you be up for moving the thoughts about adjusting the process to a github discussion? I think that will be a slightly better venue for us to work through tradeoffs and how we want to adjust things. I could see it taking a bit to work out something new, so I think there's value in having this PR focus on clearly defining our current process until we land on something new.

Reviewer 2: Yeah agreed! Thanks for updating this by the way 🙏

### 1. Prepare your release

#### Create a release branch

Create a branch that follows the naming pattern `release/v<X.Y>` and includes the changes you intend to release (usually the latest from `main`). Push it to github. You will use this branch as the base in the next step.

> > ⚠️ Release candidates and patch releases for any given major or minor release happen in the same `release/v<major>.<minor>` branch. Do not create `release/<version>` for patch or release candidate releases.

Reviewer 4: I actually don't understand what a release candidate is here (this already existed, but since you're nicely updating all this, I figure I'll share what's confusing me too) 

The release branch is `release/v<major>.<minor>`. If we have to patch it, this is saying the process is to create a branch and patch it into the release branch (right?)

That leaves me wondering, what is a release candidate / how is different from a release branch?

Reviewer 4: Mainly because it says: `Do not create release/<version> for patch or release candidate releases.` Isn't the branch the release candidate?

Reviewer: a release candidate is a release suffixed by `rc<number of the release candidate>`. For example `v0.28.0-rc0`
Making a release candidate or a release is the same process, it just change the tag itself. 

Let me know if it helps you to understand :) I hope it doesn't confuse you even more

#### Create a PR with the changes

> - Create a branch with the changes for the release (e.g. `yourname/release-v<major>.<minor>.<patch>`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Create a branch using the release branch `release/v<X.Y>` you just created in the step above (e.g. `yourname/release-v<major>.<minor>.<patch>`).
```

I know you mentioned it in the previous step, but I feel like it's better to emphasize it here

> - Create a branch using the release branch `release/v<X.Y>` you just created in the step above (e.g. `yourname/release-v<major>.<minor>.<patch>`).

Reviewer 4: Create a branch from (instead of using)?

Reviewer 4: I might say: "Create a branch from... [rest of sentence]. You might name it something like: `yourname/release-v<major>.<minor>.<patch>`"

The reason is I say this is that as I read this sentence, I got confused and thought the release branch was called `yourname/...`

  ```bash
  git checkout release/v<version_to_be_replaced>
  make tag
  git push origin v<version_to_be_replaced>
  ```

Signing a tag with a GPG key is appreciated, but in case you can't add a GPG key to your Github account using the
following [procedure](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification), you can replace
the `-s` flag by `-a` flag of the git tag command to only annotate the tag without signing. If you are using a newer Mac and hit an error like "gpg failed to sign the data fatal: failed to write commit object," see [this Stack Overflow question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39494631/gpg-failed-to-sign-the-data-fatal-failed-to-write-commit-object-git-2-10-0/40066889#40066889) for assistance.

Once a tag is created, an automated release process for this tag is triggered via Github Actions. This automated process includes:
- Publishing new versions of the UI libraries to npm.
- Building new go binaries and docker images.
- Publishing the docker images to Docker Hub.
- Creating a new Github release that uses the changelog as the release notes and provides tarballs with the latest go binaries.

> Please verify that the Github Actions complete successfully. Once they are completed, check that everything looks good in the new Github Release. If you realize we need to adjust something in the release notes, you can edit it directly in the Github UI.

Reviewer 4: not big deal, sometimes we're camel-casing GitHub and sometimes we're all lowercasing it (github).
